hey guys today I'm going to be talking
about ring world by larry niven larry
neimans books take place in the universe
called known space it's a section of our
galaxy he has aliens that he's created
and a whole expansive world that he made
the main character bring world is Lewis
whoo he's 200 years old due to a drug
called booster spice which adds years to
people's lives he's confronted by an
alien called a puppeteer the puppeteers
name is Nessus and he asks Lois to leave
with him to find artifacts that isn't
found outside of known space joining
them is a human named Teela and what's
called as in there sort of a cat like
race they leave Earth and find a
artifact shaped like a ring which as you
can tell from the cover turns out to be
a planet although it's a planet but it's
everything to Planet B when the ship
crashes they need to find a way off the
story is about them exploring the ring
one thing about this book kind of slowed
it down for me and that's the
technobabble there's a lot of scientific
explanation that goes on throughout the
book and a lot of it seems like real
science it doesn't seem like they're
just throwing orders in your face
however I couldn't follow it a lot of
the terms they use go right over my head
if it hadn't been a pro technobabble I
would have finished this book much
faster and while it does slow down the
book I don't think it ruins it now as
for just the story itself I thought this
book was amazing my favorite thing about
this book was how thought-provoking it
was it brought up theories and
philosophies that I had never considered
in the way they were introduced by the
end of the book it's established a
perspective on life that it is clearly
proven and I didn't know what was going
to go that direction it starts out
really sort of almost as if it's not
taking itself too seriously it was
really fun and it was almost like all of
like a like an adventure movie it felt
like maybe
the mummy movies it's just they're going
to locations of exploring and then it
gradually became darker and that's not a
bad thing it really went well with the
story the plot sort of gets darker
towards the end I thought Larry Niven
did this perfectly he made a really
great change from light-hearted
adventure to darker survival the
opinions I had of each of the characters
evolved a lot over the course of this
book there were characters who I didn't
really like that I eventually really
enjoyed reading about by the end of the
book and there were characters that I
loved at the beginning of the book that
by the end of the book I hate it because
of the things that they've done it is
classic science fiction while at the
same time remaining original and a good
read I was very happy i bought it rain
world has a sequel it's called the
Ringworld engineers this is the old copy
they're actually reprinting it so if I
had to give this an actual number I
would probably give it a 4 out of 5 it
was really good check it out